# Bản mẫu:Đề tài châu Á

## Cách sử dụng

[sửa mã nguồn]This continent-topic template is a shell template that is transcluded on multiple navigational templates. If there is a technical problem with a specific transclusion, it usually cannot be corrected by editing this template.If a link created by this template points to the wrong article, it can be changed in a specific transclusion as described below, or a redirect to the correct article can simply be created. |

Bản mẫu này sử dụng những tính năng phức tạp của cú pháp bản mẫu.
Bạn được khuyến khích làm quen với cấu trúc của bản mẫu này và các hàm cú pháp trước khi sửa đổi bản mẫu. Nếu sửa đổi của bạn gây ra lỗi không mong muốn, hãy sửa chữa hoặc lùi lại nhanh chóng, vì bản mẫu này có thể xuất hiện trên một số lượng lớn trang. |

Bản mẫu:About continent and region topic templates

## Additional documentation for Template:Đề tài châu Á

[sửa mã nguồn]### Removing the article "the"

[sửa mã nguồn]By default all links for the entries for the Philippines, the Maldives, etc. include the article "the". In some cases this is not wanted. To remove the leading article, set the parameter `|article=`

to anything except "yes".

- Code

`{{Đề tài châu Á|prefix=Đội tuyển bóng đá quốc gia|title=Đội tuyển bóng đá quốc gia châu Á|article=no|state=expanded}}`


- Result

Note that {{Đề tài châu Á}}, together with {{Europe topic}}, is the only continent-topic template to have an "article" parameter. In most other templates "the" is automatically included if there is no suffix and cannot be manually added or suppressed.

### Adding or suppressing "(country)" for Georgia

[sửa mã nguồn]In the link for Georgia, the disambiguator "(country)" is included unless a suffix is defined using either `|suffix=`

or the second unnamed parameter. The `|template=`

parameter overrides this behavior; set it to "yes" to explicitly include the disambiguator, or to anything else to suppress it.

The previously mentioned default behavior is different from that in {{Europe topic}}; in that template "(country)" is always included by default, regardless of whether a suffix is defined.

### Altering the link used for a specific entity

[sửa mã nguồn]To change the link used for a single state or dependency, the following entity-specific parameters are available. Most parameters are named after each entity's ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code; some states with limited recognition are not included in that standard and have parameters consisting of nonofficial two-letter codes preceded by the letter "X" (ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 user-assigned codes).

**Sovereign states**

`|AF=`

Afghanistan`|AM=`

Armenia`|AZ=`

Azerbaijan`|BH=`

Bahrain`|BD=`

Bangladesh`|BT=`

Bhutan`|BN=`

Brunei`|MM=`

Burma (Myanmar)`|KH=`

Cambodia`|CN=`

China`|CY=`

Cyprus`|TL=`

East Timor (Timor-Leste)`|EG=`

Egypt`|GE=`

Georgia`|IN=`

India`|ID=`

Indonesia`|IR=`

Iran`|IQ=`

Iraq`|IL=`

Israel`|JP=`

Japan`|JO=`

Jordan`|KZ=`

Kazakhstan`|KP=`

North Korea`|KR=`

South Korea`|KW=`

Kuwait`|KG=`

Kyrgyzstan`|LA=`

Laos`|LB=`

Lebanon`|MY=`

Malaysia`|MV=`

Maldives`|MN=`

Mongolia`|NP=`

Nepal`|OM=`

Oman`|PK=`

Pakistan`|PS=`

Palestine (UN observer state)`|PH=`

Philippines`|QA=`

Qatar`|RU=`

Russia`|SA=`

Saudi Arabia`|SG=`

Singapore`|LK=`

Sri Lanka`|SY=`

Syria`|TJ=`

Tajikistan`|TH=`

Thailand`|TR=`

Turkey`|TM=`

Turkmenistan`|AE=`

United Arab Emirates`|UZ=`

Uzbekistan`|VN=`

Vietnam`|YE=`

Yemen

**States with limited recognition**

`|XAB=`

Abkhazia`|XNK=`

Nagorno-Karabakh`|XNC=`

Northern Cyprus`|XSO=`

South Ossetia`|TW=`

Taiwan

**Dependencies and other territories**

`|IO=`

British Indian Ocean Territory`|CX=`

Christmas Island`|CC=`

Cocos (Keeling) Islands`|HK=`

Hong Kong`|MO=`

Macau

If a parameter is specified, but left blank, the respective entity will be omitted from the list. If set to anything else, it changes the link for the entity to the specified title. This can be used to correct an otherwise red link, or to bypass a redirect link per WP:BRINT.

To omit all dependencies if not applicable for the topic in question, set the parameter `|countries_only=`

to any non-null value.

### Templates implemented with Template:Đề tài châu Á

[sửa mã nguồn]- {{Bridges in Asia}}
- {{Capitals in Asia}}
- {{Coats of arms of Asia}}
- {{Foreign relations of Asia}}
- {{Languages of Asia (category)}}
- {{Languages of Asia}}
- {{Lists of newspapers in Asia}}
- {{Lists of schools in Asia}}
- {{Politics of Asia}}
- {{Television in Asia}}
- {{Sport in Asia}}

Full list (includes templates transcluding Đề tài châu Á in their documentation only)