Was Ho Chi Minh the celibate hero of Vietnamese legend, a man married only to the cause of revolution? Or is the hidden truth that he had a roving eye and a cosmopolitan appetite for women?

A conflict between the cherished official mythology of "Uncle Ho" and evidence of a steamier reality revealed in a recent biography has set Vietnamese authorities and a leading American publishing house on a collision course.

The Vietnamese censors are demanding substantial cuts to an official translation of William J. Duiker's *Ho Chi Minh: A Life*, which reveals that the great man found time for a secret marriage and a series of affairs while building the movement that brought humiliating defeat to the French and the Americans and won Vietnam its independence.

But the subject is so delicate that authorities in Hanoi cannot even bring themselves to spell out their concerns. And they have banned distribution of an issue of the *Far Eastern Economic Review* magazine which carried a small item about the controversy.

In a letter to the New York publishers, Hyperion Books, the state-run National Politics Publishing House has said only that it wants to remove certain passages from the Duiker biography which "do not conform with the information in our files".


According to Duiker, the offending material is obvious.

"My contacts told me that some people at the top are unhappy with the references to Ho Chi Minh's love life," he said.

"The Vietnamese try to leave the impression that Ho led a celibate life. While not flatly saying that he was a virgin ... they very strongly deny any formal, serious relationships after he became a professional revolutionary. But the footprints of those relationships are all over his life."

Duiker's book says Ho was married briefly in 1927 to a "poorly educated but comely" Chinese woman in Canton and had an extended affair with a prominent communist cadre, Nguyen Thi Minh Khai, who was later executed by the French.

Duiker says the records also reveal that Ho had affairs while living in France and Russia.

A former US foreign service officer who was based in Saigon during the Vietnam War, Duiker spent more than 20 years researching the subject. His 695-page book has been described by a Washington Post reviewer as "the most authoritative account of Ho's life we are likely to have for a long time".

The author says he did not set out to seek salacious material about Ho's private life, but was compelled to report what he found. "I'm not a bottom-feeder like some people and I was not looking for scraps of scandal, but it is a requirement to look into the personal life of someone who adopts such a high moral position.

"The files make very clear that before the myth of Uncle Ho was created he had a number of relationships with women."

Duiker said his editors at Hyperion were writing to the Vietnamese authorities to insist that publication of the translation would be approved only if no cuts were made to the substance of the book.

But he predicted the Vietnamese might publish a sanitised version and ignore the possibility of being sued for breach of copyright.