# Ho Chi Minh Art Exhibit Draws Fire / Busloads of protesters headed for Oakland

##### Published 4:00 am, Thursday, March 16, 2000

One photograph of communist Vietnamese leader Ho Chi Minh and a modern-day Vietnamese flag brought more than 15,000 protesters to a video store in Orange County last March.

Another Vietnamese flag was gleefully trashed at an art exhibit in Santa Ana last June.

Expect no less emotion when an Oakland art gallery that focuses on Southeast Asian art hangs 40 lithograph images of Minh from its rafters this weekend.

Vietnamese American organizations from San Jose, Sacramento, Oakland and Southern California have vowed to pack eight charter buses, cars and vans with up to 3,000 people who will converge at the Pacific Bridge Gallery tomorrow night for a candlelight vigil.

Another demonstration is planned for the exhibit opening on Saturday, and protesters have declined an invitation to participate in a panel group discussion on Sunday in favor of yet another protest action.

"We are not saying he's good or bad," said Geoff Dorn, co-owner of the gallery at Linden and Third streets. "We are not glorifying this man, but it's the role of an artist to force culture to re-examine itself, individually and collectively."

But for most South Vietnamese refugees living in the U.S., any mention of Minh recalls the horrors of war atrocities and fleeing from their own homes.

They lay the blame and the blood of 3 million Vietnamese people at the feet of the North Vietnamese Communist Party leader whose army drove the U.S. military out of that country nearly 25 years ago.

"He was the man who created the war," said Thomas Nguyen, 42, of San Jose, who is helping to organize the Oakland demonstrations.

"When something goes wrong with the federal government, who is blamed?" Nguyen asked. "The head of the government, that's who," he said.

The response of the Vietnamese American community was much the same last March in Westminster, Orange County, when a video store owner displayed a Ho Chi Minh poster and a Communist Vietnamese flag in his window.

Thousands of residents of Orange County's "Little Saigon" district demonstrated outside the store. The display also sparked demonstrations 400 miles away in San Jose.

Minh came to prominence in Vietnam in the early 1950s as tensions between communist rebels and the French-ruled colony led to war. He died in 1969.

As news of the Oakland exhibit has spread throughout the Vietnamese American community, Dorn and gallery co-owner Beth Gates have met with community leaders who pleaded with them to cancel the monthlong exhibit.

On Tuesday, protest organizers issued Dorn and Gates an ultimatum: cancel the exhibit or face a big protest.

"There's nothing that's going to stop it," Dorn said.

Dorn and Boston artist C. David Thomas said the exhibit is aimed at invoking a discussion of Minh's life, which has been all but ignored in contemporary American literature.

The exhibit brought no notice, zilch, at its first showing in Portland, Maine 2 1/2 years ago, said Thomas, 53, a Vietnam veteran who defolia- ted jungles with Agent Orange.

"Not a single raised eyebrow," said Thomas, an art professor at Emmanuel College, a small, private women's school in Boston.

The artwork -- 40 computer-enhanced, four-color lithograph collages with animated-looking oil paint figures -- represents his mind's journey from viewing Minh simply as "the enemy" to a deeper understanding of his character and motivations, Thomas said.

That must be some trip because at least one print includes an image of America's first president George Washington.

"He threw out the French the same way that Washington threw out the British," Thomas said.

I didn't know George Washington but comparing him with Ho Chi Minh is a stretch. In fact, it's pretty silly.

But Thomas is right about American history largely ignoring Minh, who led a poorly equipped civilian army to victory over the almighty U.S. military machine.

"The Vietnamese War had a dramatic effect on the last half of the 20th century in America, including a spiritual malaise, the loss of trust in government and a foreign policy shakeup," said William Duiker, who is writing a biography on Minh.

Duiker, a retired modern Asian history professor at Pennsylvania State University, views the communist leader through the same objective lens.

"I'm not trying to defend him," Duiker said of his work. "I'm trying to understand him."

Duiker doesn't share the artist's apparent romantic vision of Minh, which is found in a fictional diary, written by Thomas and Vietnam author Charles Fenn, that accompanies the exhibit.

When the late President Lyndon Johnson sent U.S. troops to Vietnam, Minh was 75 years old and more a living icon than a hands-on leader.

Evidence suggests that Minh had lost control of his underlings and feared that speaking out against war atrocities by his own men could threaten the success of the movement he started more than 10 years earlier, Duiker said.

But ultimately, like any leader, Minh should be judged by the results of his work and not the romantic images that motivated him.

"It is fair to judge him by the results of what he started, and as a matter of accuracy, a lot of things happened that he could not or did not stop," Duiker said.